Well come back.
And one of the uses for geeks is to actually pull out email addresses out of a string value.
So let's say for instance you've got a large string and you want to pull back all of the e-mail addresses
located within that string.
So let's set up some functionality here and let's set up an input.
And so this is going to be where we're going to be expecting our e-mail address and I'm not going to
use H too much fifes email because we know that if we do put a value in there it's not going to allow
me to submit the form.
If that value is not an actual email address so I'm going to keep it as text although I'm not submitting
it I'm just validating it over here.
We don't want to run into any of that.
Tim L5 defaults so let's go ahead and create an ID for this one so that we can grab that dynamically.
And I'm just going to call it e-mail.
And let's also give it a default values so that it always have to keep typing in an e-mail address so
we know that an email will start out with a string and there's a particular pattern for email addresses
and this is why Reg X is ideal.
So know that all email addresses have some characters.
Then they have the at symbol and then they have some more characters and then they have a dot for the
domain.
So basically the structure of every email address is going to be very similar.
So what I want to do is I want to use my fun to validate that whatever content I've got within Here
is an actual email address.
So the next step is to pull back the value that's contained within email so we know that we can grab
that document get element by ID.
So let's go ahead and get that value now instead of we need to pick up the value there and let's grab
email.
So this way we know within the string.
We're going to pick up the values contained within this input field.
So the next thing that we need to do is get our regular expression in order to match that pattern.
And unlike when we were looking for javascript we don't actually know what characters are going to be
here.
We don't know what characters are going to be here and we don't know what characters are going to be
here either.
So there isn't much we know but we do know that there's characters at characters dot characters so we
know there's a pattern there.
And this is where you can use Regg X are in order to help identify that pattern for emails.
So there's a number of different ones online that people use and we see here so this is our general
format.
So basically we can see that if that content.
So the first part of the content is has any letters A to Z lowercase uppercase A to Z zero to nine because
we know email addresses can have zero can have digits in there.
Also if they put a dot in there so sometimes people have their first dot last name.
So we've got to account for that.
Also sometimes people do their first name underscore last name and also sometimes people use a dash.
So basically this accounts for all the different types of characters and we're accepting any type of
anyone's of these characters for a valid email format.
And we know that if we had different type of format so if we had a character here that was typically
part of an email then we know that the email string only matches this part there.
So it's not going to take those dollar signs because they're not going to be part of an email address.
So either this whole thing is not a valid email address or the e-mail address is starting out just the
whole.
So keeping in mind that we're just matching a pattern.
So we're trying to be as accurate as possible and that's why I say there's quite a few different ones
out there for matching e-mail addresses and some of them actually are fairly lengthy.
So I took the most simplest one and it probably matches ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of
all the e-mail addresses.
There might be some variations as well.
So the next thing that we know that we do a plus.
So we concatenate it.
And so this is the Tolkin that we're looking for.
So it matches the character at which we know e-mail addresses do.
And then next we're doing the same thing that we did over here.
So the same set of characters are valid for that e-mail address and then the next thing that we know
that we need to encounter a dot.
So we need to escape that period because this is Reg x characters so we need to escape that dot and
that's why we've got the backwards slash.
So we saw that earlier as well when we were creating strings and we were using quotes and we had to
code within the strings we needed to escape the character using the backslash.
So the same thing is being done here.
The next thing that we need to look for is the dot and then the domain name.
And we know that sometimes the domain names can have a couple of characters dot another two characters.
So there's a number of different options for the domain names.
So we wanted to be able to account for all of them.
So if they have a dot and oftentimes they're not going to have an underscore or a slash so we could
theoretically we could remove these two.
We don't have to search for those.
And we're still okay we're picking up Seow dot uk.
So that's still fine.
And a lot of times they don't have the numbers either.
So we could remove those as well.
So again this stuff is just optional and it's however you want to find the pattern in whatever you want
to match the pattern to.
So basically after all of this we've created a really useful pattern here that we can then take and
we can bring in to our Javascript.
And let's set up our variable pattern so that's slosh slosh.
And I'm also going to include the IGY so that we get all of the e-mail addresses and the case actually
doesn't really matter because it's not matching to any other case.
So now we know that we've got a pattern for the e-mail address.
We know we've picked up the value from the input field and now we're ready to do our regular expression
and see if there is a match.
So let's do the next one and we'll use our again and this time we're going to match the value that's
contained within the so this is in place of the string that we used last time we're taking the value
that we're getting from the e-mail input field.
And this is the one that we're actually utilizing and we're matching.
And then next we need to match the pattern.
And then lastly let's just console log out the results and see what happens.
So we want to make sure that there is something in here and if there is then we know that this is a
valid email address.
So let's open up our editor and refresh that page and we've got a valid email address so we know when
we click it.
We do have a valid e-mail address.
So what happens if I remove the symbol we get.
No because this is no longer valid.
So we can simply return back so we can return back to our.
So we could do something like this or we could return back that are or we could set up a terrine ary
operator which will basically return back true or false.
So let's actually do that and we'll set that up as T and actually do need to get rid of that.
So let's set that up as t.
So remember what the Teron area operator did is that we could apply a condition.
So let's check to see if our is equal to.
No.
And if it is then we know that we've got a false.
So this should be returning back false and otherwise we're returning back.
True.
And now let's return back t.
And also within the console let's put to you.
So let's try that one more time and validate email
and we see that it's actually not working.
So why do you think it's not working so a little bit of trouble shooting that we can do here now.
So let's go back to what we learned earlier.
When we do the on click events and whenever we run this function if we're returning back false to it.
So let's actually move this console up earlier before we do the return because we know that once we
return we're not going to get any further of the code execution within Javascript.
So we see that we get true being returned back.
Let's update that.
Now we're getting false being returned back.
So what's happening here is that we're calling we're invoking the function here the on click and we're
simply returning back true.
And basically that's what we're doing here.
So that was what we're doing it was just the order that we were presenting the console log.
And we don't actually have anything happening if it's true.
So that's different than if we actually ran the function and we did a check to see if it was true.
And then we actually did something with it.
So there's a few options there that you can do as well.
So what I want you to do now is create an input form that's actually going to validate to check to see
first of all if there's any content in the inputs.
And then secondly to check to see if you've got an e-mail input.
And thirdly create a number input and remember don't use the types so use them all as text so that we
don't get tripped up with each time L5 and create one input as a number create one as an e-mail.
So I just write this down so number input email input and then a regular text input and all of them
all need to have content.
So we need to make sure that there are some values within there and then the number needs to be checked
to see if it's actually a number.
The email needs to be checked to see if it's actually an email address and then the text.
Let's restrict this only to text so no numbers.
So this one has to be only text input so only character inputs no digits at all.
So let's only characters and all digits so that's the validation and we're going to use Reg acq Reg
X in order to do this validation.
So go ahead and create this and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up.